TITLE: Olivia Tallent, Section B,  DNA Analyzer
PROBLEM DESCRIPTION: 
The program will take in a file containing a DNA sequence and work to analyze it. This will be through a variety of ways, transforming 
the data into RNA and protein sequences. Additionally, with two DNA sequences inputted, comparison can occur. This can be by comparing 
their nucleotide sequences or their protein sequences, finding clusters of similarities. Then the project will output a report visual, 
where the inputted data can be visualized strand by strand by looking at the nucleotides and proteins and a visual symbolyzing clusters.
PROGRAM DOCUMENTATION:
The program includes SFML so it must be built with SFML and the provided dataset files. When the script is run, the user must input the
datasets they wish to analyze (this is guided by the console's text). Once the data has been compiled and the SFML window opens, the user
can press the arrow keys: up/down to navigate between strands and left/right to scroll through the current strand. One feature that is outlined
in the DNAStrand class but not in the visual output is the ability to modify nucleotides and codons. In a future iteration, this could be added 
to the visual (and additionally the functionality for additions/deletions in the DNA strand) which could allow for more data manipulation and 
analysis. Another aspect that I intended to include is the analysis of each strand from a start to a stop codon. Because of the magnitude of the 
dataset I used, I wasn't able to implement this in the time given, but it could be something to analyze in the future.
CLASS DESCRIPTION:
The custom class that I created was the DNAStrand class. This class encapsulated all of the data storage and functions in managing not only a
list of nucleotides, but its pair sequence, its codon sequence, and its protein sequence. In addition to this, it had functionality that 
allowed for comparison between two strands and additionally allowed for the drawing of the strands.
LIST DATA STRUCTURE:
I chose to use a vector to store my data. I used this because of the fact that I needed to do a lot of indexing of the vectors that I used.
The vector also had the functions that I needed, as I rarely needed anything more than accessing at a specific index, and I wanted it to be
able to scale to my large datasets. The vector held not only the list of data inputted, but the list for the pair sequence and the list of 
pointers to proteins.
FILE I/O: 
Text files were be used to retrieve the inputted DNA sequences at the beginning of the program. The user is able to input what files they would 
like to read from. It was very important to my program to be able to read in data as it defined what analysis was done. Without this input there
would be no data to analyze.
PROJECT MODIFICATIONS: 
The main things that I changed from the original were the methods of presenting the data. I had originally said that the user would be able to 
input the types of analysis they wanted to perform on the data, but this became too complicated in the end. Because there were 4 primary functions
I decided that it would be easier to allow the user to look at all of the resulting information at once and be able to scroll through strands as
they wished. One other aspect that I modified was the class structure itself. At first I just wrote down all of the different functions for reading
and modifying data, but I didn't have a plan at all for the visual component. When making the final project, I had to add functions to the DNAStrand
class to perform this visual functionality.
REFLECTIONS: 
Through this project I learned a lot about what planning can do for a project. In a lot of other programming projects I have done, I fail to plan
ahead for what my functions are going to look like, and add them as I see fit. In this project however, because I had to write a proposal, I was
forced to think it through beforehand. This made it a lot easier when I was going about writing the header files and the skeleton of the DNAStrand
class because I could just directly copy from my outline and begin writing the functions. One thing I might do differently in a future project is
think more clearly about where my for loops are going (including drawing them out). I spent a lot of time debugging my cluster algorithm and my
display functions because the way that I was iterating through my for loops didn't actually match my data.